CWE-28: Path Traversal: '..\filedir'
Description
The software uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory, but it does not properly neutralize "..\" sequences that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory.
Extended Description
This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory.
The '..\' manipulation is the canonical manipulation for operating systems that use "\" as directory separators, such as Windows. However, it is also useful for bypassing path traversal protection schemes that only assume that the "/" separator is valid.
Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOr and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that may want to be explored.
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-28: Path Traversal: '..\filedir'
  
Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
Page
42
 
 ChildOf
Applicable Platforms
23 Relative Path Traversal
     Language : Language-Independent (Prevalence = Undetermined)
Operating_System : Windows (Prevalence = Undetermined) Common Consequences
Scope
Confidentiality Integrity
Potential Mitigations
Impact
Read Files or Directories Modify Files or Directories
Likelihood
   Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Input Validation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy, i.e., use
a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing
input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the
full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related
fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, "boat" may
be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if
the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue." Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "." character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23, and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36. Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help
to avoid CWE-434. Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist, which may be incomplete (CWE-184). For example, filtering "/" is insufficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of "\" as a directory separator. Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous data (CWE-182). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of "../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Input Validation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
  Observed Examples
CVE-2002-0661
CVE-2002-0946 CVE-2002-1042
CVE-2002-1209
CVE-2002-1178
"\" not in denylist for web server, allowing path traversal attacks when the server is run in Windows and other OSes. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0661
Arbitrary files may be read files via ..\ (dot dot) sequences in an HTTP request. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0946
Directory traversal vulnerability in search engine for web server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via "..\" sequences in queries. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1042
Directory traversal vulnerability in FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via "..\" sequences in a GET request. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1209
Directory traversal vulnerability in servlet allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands via "..\" sequences in an HTTP request. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1178
                  MemberOf Relationships
This MemberOf relationships table shows additional CWE Catgeories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
 MemberOf 981
Taxonomy Mappings
PLOVER
Software Fault Patterns
SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal 888 1981
              SFP16
'..\filename' ('dot dot backslash') Path Traversal