CWE-34: Path Traversal: '....//'
Description
The software uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory, but it does not properly neutralize '....//' (doubled dot dot slash) sequences that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory.
Extended Description
This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory.
The '....//' manipulation is useful for bypassing some path traversal protection schemes. If "../"
is filtered in a sequential fashion, as done by some regular expression engines, then "....//" can collapse into the "../" unsafe value (CWE-182). It could also be useful when ".." is removed, if the operating system treats "//" and "/" as equivalent.
Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOr and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that may want to be explored.
Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
ChildOf 23 Relative Path Traversal 42 CanFollow 182 Collapse of Data into Unsafe Value 423
Applicable Platforms
Language : Language-Independent (Prevalence = Undetermined) Common Consequences
Confidentiality Read Files or Directories Integrity Modify Files or Directories
Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful: Cost effective for partial coverage: Source code Weakness Analyzer Context-configured Source Code Weakness Analyzer
                      66
CWE-34: Path Traversal: '....//'
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful: Highly cost effective: Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.) Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Effectiveness = High
Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Input Validation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy, i.e., use
a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing
input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the
full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related
fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, "boat" may
be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if
the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue." Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "." character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23, and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36. Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help
to avoid CWE-434. Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist, which may be incomplete (CWE-184). For example, filtering "/" is insufficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of "\" as a directory separator. Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous data (CWE-182). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of "../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Input Validation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-1670 Mail server allows remote attackers to create arbitrary directories via a ".." or rename arbitrary files via a "....//" in user supplied parameters.
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2004-1670
MemberOf Relationships
This MemberOf relationships table shows additional CWE Catgeories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
Nature Type ID Name Page
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal 888 1981
Notes
Relationship
This could occur due to a cleansing error that removes a single "../" from "....//"