CWE-65: Windows Hard Link
Description
The software, when opening a file or directory, does not sufficiently handle when the name is associated with a hard link to a target that is outside of the intended control sphere. This could allow an attacker to cause the software to operate on unauthorized files.
Extended Description
Failure for a system to check for hard links can result in vulnerability to different types of attacks. For example, an attacker can escalate their privileges if a file used by a privileged program is replaced with a hard link to a sensitive file (e.g. AUTOEXEC.BAT). When the process opens the
 116
CWE-65: Windows Hard Link
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-65: Windows Hard Link
file, the attacker can assume the privileges of that process, or prevent the program from accurately processing data.
Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOr and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that may want to be explored.
Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name Page
                     ChildOf
Applicable Platforms
Language : Language-Independent (Prevalence = Undetermined)
Operating_System : Windows (Prevalence = Undetermined) Common Consequences
59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link 106 Following')
         Scope
Confidentiality Integrity
Potential Mitigations
Impact
Read Files or Directories Modify Files or Directories
Likelihood
         Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy = Separation of Privilege
Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system. Denying access to a file can prevent an attacker from replacing that file with a link to a sensitive file. Ensure good compartmentalization in the system to provide protected areas that can be trusted.
Observed Examples
CVE-2003-0844 Web server plugin allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files via a symlink attack on predictable temporary filenames.
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2003-0844
MemberOf Relationships
This MemberOf relationships table shows additional CWE Catgeories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
   Reference Description
      CVE-2002-0725 File system allows local attackers to hide file usage activities via a hard link to the target file, which causes the link to be recorded in the audit trail instead of
the target file.
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0725
              Nature Type ID
MemberOf 743 MemberOf 877 MemberOf 980
Name Page
             CERT C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
CERT C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
SFP Secondary Cluster: Link in Resource Name Resolution
734 1920 868 1950 888 1981
                                Notes
 117

Mapped Taxonomy Name
Node ID
Fit
Mapped Node Name
  Weakness ID : 66 Status: Draft Structure : Simple
Abstraction : Base
 
Nature
Nature
Scope
Type ID Name
Type ID Name
Impact
Page
Page
Likelihood
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-66: Improper Handling of File Names that Identify Virtual Resources
  Research Gap
Under-studied
Taxonomy Mappings
PLOVER
CERT C Secure Coding Software Fault Patterns
References
FIO05-C SFP18
Windows hard link
Identify files using multiple file attributes Link in resource name resolution
                    [REF-62]Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". 1st Edition. 2006. Addison Wesley.
