CWE-69: Improper Handling of Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream
Description
The software does not properly prevent access to, or detect usage of, alternate data streams (ADS).
Extended Description
An attacker can use an ADS to hide information about a file (e.g. size, the name of the process) from a system or file browser tools such as Windows Explorer and 'dir' at the command line utility. Alternately, the attacker might be able to bypass intended access restrictions for the associated data fork.
Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOr and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that may want to be explored.
Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
ChildOf 66 Improper Handling of File Names that Identify Virtual 118 Resources
Applicable Platforms
         122
CWE-69: Improper Handling of Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-69: Improper Handling of Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream
Language : Language-Independent (Prevalence = Undetermined)
Operating_System : Windows (Prevalence = Undetermined) Background Details
Alternate data streams (ADS) were first implemented in the Windows NT operating system
to provide compatibility between NTFS and the Macintosh Hierarchical File System (HFS). In HFS, data and resource forks are used to store information about a file. The data fork provides information about the contents of the file while the resource fork stores metadata such as file type.
Common Consequences
Potential Mitigations
Phase: Testing
Software tools are capable of finding ADSs on your system.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that the source code correctly parses the filename to read or write to the correct stream.
      Scope Impact   Likelihood
        Access Control Non-Repudiation Other
Bypass Protection Mechanism Hide Activities
Other
   Observed Examples
Reference
CVE-1999-0278
CVE-2000-0927
Affected Resources
• System Process
Description
In IIS, remote attackers can obtain source code for ASP files by appending ":: $DATA" to the URL. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-1999-0278
Product does not properly record file sizes if they are stored in alternative data streams, which allows users to bypass quota restrictions. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0927
             MemberOf Relationships
This MemberOf relationships table shows additional CWE Catgeories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
Nature Type ID Name Page
MemberOf 904 SFP Primary Cluster: Malware 888 1959
Notes
Theoretical
This and similar problems exist because the same resource can have multiple identifiers that dictate which behavior can be performed on the resource.
                           Taxonomy Mappings
PLOVER
Related Attack Patterns
168 Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream
Windows ::DATA alternate data stream
  Mapped Taxonomy Name
    Node ID
    Fit
    Mapped Node Name
        CAPEC-ID
    Attack Pattern Name
    References
 123
CWE-69: Improper Handling of Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream

Abstraction : Variant
 
Nature Type ID Name   Page
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-72: Improper Handling of Apple HFS+ Alternate Data Stream Path
[REF-562]Don Parker. "Windows NTFS Alternate Data Streams". 2005 February 6. < http:// www.securityfocus.com/infocus/1822 >.
[REF-7]Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "Writing Secure Code". 2nd Edition. 2002 December 4. Microsoft Press. < https://www.microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure- code-9780735617223 >.