CWE-106: Struts: Plug-in Framework not in Use
Weakness ID: 106
Abstraction: Variant
Structure: Simple	
Status: Draft
Presentation Filter:  
+ Description
When an application does not use an input validation framework such as the Struts Validator, there is a greater risk of introducing weaknesses related to insufficient input validation.
+ Extended Description
Unchecked input is the leading cause of vulnerabilities in J2EE applications. Unchecked input leads to cross-site scripting, process control, and SQL injection vulnerabilities, among others.
Although J2EE applications are not generally susceptible to memory corruption attacks, if a J2EE application interfaces with native code that does not perform array bounds checking, an attacker may be able to use an input validation mistake in the J2EE application to launch a buffer overflow attack.
+ Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
+ Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature	Type	ID	Name
ChildOf	Base	1173	Improper Use of Validation Framework
+ Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
+ Modes Of Introduction
The different Modes of Introduction provide information about how and when this weakness may be introduced. The Phase identifies a point in the life cycle at which introduction may occur, while the Note provides a typical scenario related to introduction during the given phase.

Phase	Note
Implementation	
+ Applicable Platforms
The listings below show possible areas for which the given weakness could appear. These may be for specific named Languages, Operating Systems, Architectures, Paradigms, Technologies, or a class of such platforms. The platform is listed along with how frequently the given weakness appears for that instance.
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
+ Common Consequences
The table below specifies different individual consequences associated with the weakness. The Scope identifies the application security area that is violated, while the Impact describes the negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in exploiting this weakness. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a weakness will be exploited to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited to achieve a different impact.

Scope	Impact	Likelihood
Integrity
Technical Impact: Unexpected State

Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input Validation
Use an input validation framework such as Struts.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use an input validation framework such as Struts.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input Validation
Use the Struts Validator to validate all program input before it is processed by the application. Ensure that there are no holes in your configuration of the Struts Validator. Example uses of the validator include checking to ensure that:
Phone number fields contain only valid characters in phone numbers
Boolean values are only "T" or "F"
Free-form strings are of a reasonable length and composition
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use the Struts Validator to validate all program input before it is processed by the application. Ensure that there are no holes in your configuration of the Struts Validator. Example uses of the validator include checking to ensure that:
Phone number fields contain only valid characters in phone numbers
Boolean values are only "T" or "F"
Free-form strings are of a reasonable length and composition
+ Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality	Description
Primary
(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
+ Memberships
This MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
Nature	Type	ID	Name
MemberOf	Category	722	OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf	Category	990	SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
+ Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped Taxonomy Name	Node ID	Fit	Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms			Struts: Plug-in Framework Not In Use
+ References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw. "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST. 2005-11-07. <https://samate.nist.gov/SSATTM_Content/papers/Seven%20Pernicious%20Kingdoms%20-%20Taxonomy%20of%20Sw%20Security%20Errors%20-%20Tsipenyuk%20-%20Chess%20-%20McGraw.pdf>.
+ Content History
+ Submissions
Submission Date	Submitter	Organization
2006-07-19	7 Pernicious Kingdoms	
+ Modifications
