CWE-122: Heap-based Buffer Overflow
Description
A heap overflow condition is a buffer overflow, where the buffer that can be overwritten is allocated in the heap portion of memory, generally meaning that the buffer was allocated using a routine such as malloc().
Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOr and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that may want to be explored.
Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
ChildOf 787 Out-of-bounds Write 1466 ChildOf 788 Access of Memory Location After End of Buffer 1473
Weakness Ordinalities
Primary :
Applicable Platforms
Language : C (Prevalence = Undetermined)
Language : C++ (Prevalence = Undetermined) Likelihood Of Exploit
High
Common Consequences
                     Integrity Confidentiality Availability
Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands Bypass Protection Mechanism
Modify Memory
 294
CWE-122: Heap-based Buffer Overflow
Potential Mitigations
Pre-design: Use a language or compiler that performs automatic bounds checking.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. Not a complete solution.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Pre-design through Build: Canary style bounds checking, library changes which ensure the validity of chunk data, and other such fixes are possible, but should not be relied upon.
Phase: Implementation
Implement and perform bounds checking on input.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Libraries or Frameworks
Do not use dangerous functions such as gets. Look for their safe equivalent, which checks for the boundary.
Phase: Operation
Use OS-level preventative functionality. This is not a complete solution, but it provides some defense in depth.
Demonstrative Examples
Example 1:
While buffer overflow examples can be rather complex, it is possible to have very simple, yet still exploitable, heap-based buffer overflows:
Example Language: C (bad)
The buffer is allocated heap memory with a fixed size, but there is no guarantee the string in argv[1] will not exceed this size and cause an overflow.
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-122: Heap-based Buffer Overflow
  
Scope Impact   Likelihood
Access Control
Buffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy. Besides important user data, heap-based overflows can be used to overwrite function pointers that may be living in memory, pointing it to the attacker's code. Even in applications that do not explicitly use function pointers, the run-time will usually leave many in memory. For example, object methods in C++ are generally implemented using function pointers. Even in C programs, there is often a global offset table used by the underlying runtime.
Integrity Confidentiality Availability Access Control Other
Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands Bypass Protection Mechanism
Other
When the consequence is arbitrary code execution, this can often be used to subvert any other security service.
Observed Examples
CVE-2007-4268
Affected Resources
• Memory
Chain: integer signedness error (CWE-195) passes signed comparison, leading to heap overflow (CWE-122) https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2007-4268
MemberOf Relationships
This MemberOf relationships table shows additional CWE Catgeories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
 MemberOf MemberOf
Notes
Relationship 296
970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buffer Access 1161 SEI CERT C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07.
Characters and Strings (STR)
888 1977 1154 2029
                    CWE-122: Heap-based Buffer Overflow
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-123: Write-what-where Condition
Heap-based buffer overflows are usually just as dangerous as stack-based buffer overflows.
  Taxonomy Mappings
CLASP
Software Fault Patterns CERT C Secure Coding
Related Attack Patterns
92 Forced Integer Overflow
References
Mapped Taxonomy Name
Node ID
Fit
Mapped Node Name
Heap overflow
SFP8 Faulty Buffer Access
STR31-C CWE More Specific Guarantee that storage for strings has sufficient space for character data and
the null terminator
                
    
CAPEC-ID
Attack Pattern Name
  [REF-7]Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "Writing Secure Code". 2nd Edition. 2002 December 4. Microsoft Press. < https://www.microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure- code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44]Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John Viega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62]Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". 1st Edition. 2006. Addison Wesley.
[REF-62]Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". 1st Edition. 2006. Addison Wesley.