CWE-147: Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators

Description
The software receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that could be interpreted as input terminators when they are sent to a downstream component.
  358
CWE-147: Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators
CWE Version 4.2
CWE-147: Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators
For example, a "." in SMTP signifies the end of mail message data, whereas a null character can be used for the end of a string.
Relationships
The table(s) below shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOr and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that may want to be explored.
  Extended Description
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
       Nature
ChildOf ParentOf
Type ID
138 626
Name
Improper Neutralization of Special Elements Null Byte Interaction Error (Poison Null Byte)
Page
343 1242
                           Applicable Platforms
Language : Language-Independent (Prevalence = Undetermined) Common Consequences
Scope Impact
Integrity Unexpected State
Potential Mitigations
Likelihood
             Developers should anticipate that terminators will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their software system. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed by the system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Input Validation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy, i.e., use
a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue." Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together, sometimes it may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection (CWE-88).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy = Input Validation
 359
CWE-147: Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators

Reference
Description
Nature
Type ID Name     Page
Mapped Taxonomy Name
Node ID
Fit
Mapped Node Name
CAPEC-ID
Attack Pattern Name
  Weakness ID : 148 Status: Draft Structure : Simple
Abstraction : Variant
 
Nature
Type ID Name   Page
CWE Version 4.2
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
  Observed Examples
CVE-2000-0319
CVE-2000-0320
CVE-2001-0996
CVE-2002-0001
MFV. mail server does not properly identify terminator string to signify end of message, causing corruption, possibly in conjunction with off-by-one error. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0319
MFV. mail server does not properly identify terminator string to signify end of message, causing corruption, possibly in conjunction with off-by-one error. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0320
Mail server does not quote end-of-input terminator if it appears in the middle of a message.
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0996
Improperly terminated comment or phrase allows commands. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0001
              MemberOf Relationships
This MemberOf relationships table shows additional CWE Catgeories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.
 MemberOf 990
Taxonomy Mappings
PLOVER
Software Fault Patterns
Related Attack Patterns
SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
Input Terminator
SFP24 Tainted input to command
888 1985
                  460 HTTP Parameter Pollution (HPP)